# Academy_Awards_Project

The data folder contains many files named oscar_dataX.csv. All of these files were intermediate steps in the process of getting to the final_oscar_data.csv file which has all the information necessary for the analysis. The inflation_multiplier.csv file was not used in the final project, but was included in case the financial information was not adjusted for inflation. 

The python_script folder contains the jupyter notebook file that I used to automate the retrieval of box office and film information that was necessary to conduct the analysis. Throughout the document it shows the writing of the previously mentioned oscar_dataX.csv files. For the automation of retrieving the information from IMDB I first started with a dataset that contained all movies ever nominated for Academy Awards and then filtered down the movies to just ones nominated for awards I was interested in being Best Picture, Director, Actor, and Actress. Then I manually added the unique IMDB ID for each film which was time consuming. After this I was able to automate the retreival of all other information. Reasonably there was some box office information missing after all of this since there were over 1200 entries and not all box office information is listed on IMDB so I had to manually try and find missing information after all other information was added to the file.

The reports folder has two files posted, one is the raw .Rmd file of the code and the other is the .pdf file of the rendered project. Now that I created the dataset metioned earlier, I could start my analysis which comprised of converting variables to necessary types and other cleansing methods and data prep. After that was complete I moved to exploratory data analysis by creating histograms to see how award winners were distributed by runtime, total nominations, and genre. After that I moved to creating logit models for probability of winning awards for each categories based on specifically box office and budget. Then I moved to logistic regression analysis and interpreted the coefficients on the models that I made with different variables included and made coefficient plots based upon the models. Finally, I created a predictive model to predict whether a movie would win the award it was nominated based upon the factors I listed earlier and compiled those results into a confusion matrix with varying levels of accuracy.
